Ex. 1.2 p. 23 Murphy

1) Tom's father teached him how to drive when he was 17.
2) Don fell down the stairs this morning and hurt his leg.
3) We needed some money so we sought our car.
4) Ann spent a lot of money yeterday. She bought a dress which cost 50 pounds.
5) Jim threw the ball to Sue who cought it.

Ex. 1.3 p. 23 Murphy

1) How long did you stay there?
2) Did you stay in a hotel?
3) Did you go alone?
4) How did you travel?
5) Did weather is fine?
6) What did you do in the evenings?
7) Did you meet any interesting people?

Ex. 197 p. 158 Голицынский
1) It is cold in autumn. It often rains. A cold wind often blows.
2) The weather will be fine today. It's warms, the sun is shining brightly. A soft wind is blowing. Small white clounds are sailing in the sky.
3) Don't go out: it is raining hearvily.
4) Take your raincoat with you. I am afraid it will rain in the evening and you will get wet throught if you won't put it on.
5) Every spring birds come to our graden and sing in the trees.
6) Listen! Somebody is sing in the next room.
7) It usually doesn't snow at this time of the year.
8) What is the weather like now? Is it snows? - No, it isn't.
9) Will we go out of town to ski on Sunday? - Yes, we will if it will snow this week and if there will be a lot of snow everywhere.
10) What will you do tomorrow? - We will go out of town if weather won't change for the worse. Will you come with us? - With pleasure, if only I won't have too much work to do at home.
11) If we have TV sets at our supermarket, they will inform customers about things in the store.
12) If we will play music, it will produce the right atmosphere.
13) If we will put in cameras, they will stop people stealing things.
14) If we will employ more assistants, they will help our customers.

Ex. 199 p. 160 Голицынский
1) What did your neighbours do yestarday?
2) Mr Smith fixed his car yesterday morning.
3) His wife watered her lovely flowers.
4) Their children cleaned the yard and then they played basketball.
5) In the evening their boys listened to loud music and watched TV.
6) Their little girls cried a little and then smiled.
7) Her brothers shouted at her.
8) Mrs Smith worked in the kithen.
9) She baked a delicious apple pie.
10) She cooked a nice dinner.
11) She washed the dishes and looked very tired.
12) The children brushed their teeth, yawned a little and went to bed.
13) Their mother changed her clothes and brushed her hair. Then she talked on the phone.
14) Her husband smoked a cigarette and talked to his wife.
15) They waited for the bus. The bus arrived at 9 o'clock.
16) They visited their friends.
17) They danced a lot there.
18) Mr and Mrs Smith rested very well last night. They really had a wonderful time with their friends.
19) Did Mrs Smith fix his car yesterday morning? Did Mrs Smith water her lovely flowers? Did their children clean the yard? Did they play basketball? When did their boys watch TV? Who was bake a delicious lemon pie? Did Mrs Smith cook a good dinner? Did the children go to bed? Why did Mr Smith and Mrs Smith have a wonderful time last night? Where were they?

Ex. 200 p. 161 Голицынский
On Monday we had five lessons. The first lessons in Russian. At this lesson we wrote a dictation and did some exercises. Nick went to the blackboard. He answered well and got a "five". Pete did not a get a "five" because he did not know his lesson. After the second lesson I went to the canteen. I ate a sandwich and drank a cup of tea. I did not go home at once. I went to the library and changed my books. then I went home.

Ex. 201 p. 161 Голицынский
On Thusday I got up at half past six. I went to the bathroom and washed my hands and face and cleaned my teeth. Then I dressed, went to the kitchen and cooked breakfast for my family. At half past seven my son got up and had breakfast. I had breakfast with my son. My son ate a sandwich and drank a cup of tea. I didn't drink tea. I drank coffee. After breakfast my son left home for school. I didn't work in the morning. I worked in the afternoon. In the evening I was at home. My husband and my son were at home, too. We rested in the evening. My son watched TV, my husband read newspapers and I did some work about the house. At about eleven o'clock we went to bed.

Ex. 203 p. 163 Голицынский
1) His sister studys English every day.
2) She studied English two hours ago.
3) Did your brother go to school last Friday? - Yes, he did.
4) I go to bed at ten o'clock every day.
5) I went to bed at ten o'clock yesterday.
6) My brother washs his face every morning.
7) Last night he washed his face with soap and water.
8) I don't have history lessons every day.
9) We didn't rest yesterday.
10) My brother didn't drink coffee yesterday.
11) My mother always takes a bus to get to work, but yesterday she didn't take a bus. Yesterday she walked to her office.
12) Do you talk to the members of your family every day? - Yes, I do. But yesterday I didn't talk to them: I was very busy yesterday.
13) Did you come home at six o'clock yesterday? - No, I did. Yesterday I was very tired. I had dinner with my family. After dinner I was very thirsty. I drank two cups of tea. Then I rested.
14) Mary likes writing stories.
15) Last week she wrote a funny story about her pet.
16) Did you tell your mother the truth about the money?
17) Do you wear your polka-dot derss to work? - Yes, I do. I wore it yesterday.
18) We like to go to the beach. We enjoied swimming in the ocean last weekend.

Custom ex.
1) I fix my car.
2) I don't fix my car.
3) Do you fix your car?
4) I'm fixing my car.
5) I am not fixing my car.
6) Are you fixing your car?
7) I will fix my car.
8) I won't fix my car.
9) Will you fix your car?
10) I fixed my car.
11) I didn't fix my car.
12) Did you fix your car?
13) She cooks breakfast.
14) She doesn't cook breakfast.
15) Does she cook breakfast?
16) She is cooking breakfast.
17) She isn't cooking breakfast.
18) Is she cooking breakfast?
19) She will cook breakfast.
20) She won't cook breakfast.
21) Will she cook breakfast?
22) She cooked breakfast.
23) She didn't cook breakfast.
24) Did she cook breakfast?
