In the past, there were many jobs that now no longer exist. Most of them have been replaced by machines, but in some cases the whole idea has disappeared. For example, there used to be telegraph operators, who sent long-distance messages called telegrams. These were like an old kind of text messages, but you had to ask a telegraph operator to transmit your message using a special electrical machine. So, no telegraph operators any more!

Here are some other jobs that people used to do.

Lift operators.
These days we get in a lift, push the button and go. A lift can be operated by anyone, but until 1950, a lift operator travelled in the lift with passengers all the time. They were trained to operate the lifts. Lift operators have mostly gone now, though they are still used in some office buildings and tourist attractions, like the Eiffel Tower in Paris.

Lamplighters.
In most big cities around the world at the beginning of the 20th century, street lamps used gas, not electricity. So, there were men who worked as lamplighters: they used to go around and light street lamps every evening with a kind of candle on a long pole. They used to light about a hundred lamps an hour.

Typesetters.
A lot of computer software has been designed to help people produce books and newspapers. But how was this done before computers? The answer — the pages were assembled by typesetters. They put metal letters into wooden frames to make the layout of each page.

Switchboard operators.
Can you believe, that in the past, to make a telephone call you had to talk to an operator, say the number you wanted and then the operator connected you to that number? Strange but true. This was one of the few jobs at the beginning of the 20th century that was almost always done by women — men were not patient enough.

Rat catcher.
Rat catchers were typically young people who chased and captured rats during the Victorian era. These catchers were common during this time because cities like London were infested with rats, commonly known as carriers of various diseases. Rat catchers caught and killed rats with poison or wooden sticks to eradicate them from the streets.

Dispatch rider.
A dispatch rider was a motorcyclist responsible for delivering urgent messages between militaries during World War I and II. Radio transmissions during wartime were unstable and prone to interception, so reliable and quick motorcycle couriers were necessary during these pressing situations.

Court jester.
Court jesters were entertainers who performed for royal households and public crowds during medieval and Renaissance times. Jesters' acts generally involved humorous songs, stories and acrobatics, and they usually wore colorful costumes.

Will more jobs be replaced in the next few years? It seems very possible. The world is changing so fast that new jobs are sure to appear, and others disapper.
